---
title:  "NormConf"
permalink: /posts/2022/12/normconf
date: 2022-12-15
---

# Everything is on fire and you should contribute

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-6sS3wVYpM8&list=PLYXaKIsOZBstGUTXZXp2azDk8UJhpVVq3&index=1

# Data science intake forms
- love the form
- love that you fill it out WITH a stakeholder

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yIkeUKcQjs&list=PLYXaKIsOZBstGUTXZXp2azDk8UJhpVVq3&index=3

# How to name files
- If I could tattoo this talk on my body I would

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ES1LTlnpLMk&list=PLYXaKIsOZBstGUTXZXp2azDk8UJhpVVq3&index=6

# Is "Data Happiness" Possible? A tale of Product Analytics as a Product
- Data Service organization
- Instead, view your product analytics as a product that is supported by your team. Each new request is a feature.
	- building an internal tool to measure your company's process
	- stakeholders are your users, you're building _with_ them not _for_ them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F1vt0P1fgyc&list=PLYXaKIsOZBstGUTXZXp2azDk8UJhpVVq3&index=8

# Hotkeys for Spreadsheets Cookbook, Practical Solutions from CTRL-Arrow, to F4

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HF0F4H8BNsE&list=PLYXaKIsOZBstGUTXZXp2azDk8UJhpVVq3&index=9

# You don't need ML for that problem

- As a DS manager, I have more experience NOT building ML than building ML
- chuckled at the red pill blue pill, lol
- some very good memes and visuals in this talk, very enjoyable

At Biobot, my broken-record mantra is "how low is the bar, really?" This talk is basically that - keep it simple, let go of complex models, keep your work focused on the impact and value.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I1jl65cjeow&list=PLYXaKIsOZBstGUTXZXp2azDk8UJhpVVq3&index=10

#######

# Session 1

Hacking your way to API

- really love the developer progression
- q&a when is this a good or bad idea?
	- good for short-term needs, but not for long-term bc maintenance is really hard (eg updating the package and your stuff getting overwritten)
	- also don't get caught up in patching: sometimes the tool does what you need it to!
- words of wisdom: don't be afraid to dig in! I didn't feel empowered to dig in for a long time, so I hope you do.

# session 2

- doesn't like jupyter notebooks
- favorite question: what is the simplest thing that might work?
- but: simplicity is hard to define, and even harder to achieve
- woodrowking jig:

# Session 3

zen of tedium (great to share with data ops)
- fallacy that doing a thing manually is a moral failing
- "i call bullshit: any job that needs to be done is fair game for any of us"
- Q&A about junior folks
	- secret side projects: don't ask your manager; some projects will energize folks bc they save time and gain skills
	- also: for manual things you do every day, always question "should we even be doing this?" if so, it's probably ok to keep it manual. but if not, then don't!

Data ethics: the non-sexy parts (great to share with biobot)

- lots of intro about the "sexy" data ethics, which I actually love as a concise overview of the big issues (and their associated names! nouns are so helpful!)
- non-sexy ethical issues are the ones we run into all the time in our jobs tho
	- exec abuses your analysis, caveats be damned
	- what if we just lie a little bit? (if you fudge the ETAs down, you would save a bunch of money)
	- marquis project at your company is to do fancy ML, but you simply don't have enough data to do that. manager wants fancy ML, what do you do?
	- key value prop that your company is using to raise money is not gonna work. nobody is listening to your warnings, what do you do?
	- incompatible licenses
- general themes
	- fudging your numbers: "this is something called lying"
	- someone asks you to fudge your numbers
	- your numbers take on a life of their own

- a lot is normal job ethics with the "how to lie with statistics" thing thrown in

--> this is making me realize: a lot of the temptation to chime in and help other teams (eg sales or marketing) is bc it strikes an ethical chord; when they share inaccurate info, it feels like a breach of my scientific code of ethics. but after a certain point, it can't be my job anymore, we have to let them make their own mistakes.

---

Intermediate python objects

- "basically this talk could have been called dictionaries are the best, probably use those if you're in doubt"
- much easier to evaluate pros and cons of a structure you have written down than evaluating three that you have halfway figured out
	- i think there's a balance here tho, between scoping solutions and not getting stuck in theorizing
- at a startup, it's really important to leave room to expand. so you can start with something small, but it's really important to make it easy to expand upon

---

I would have written less code but I didn't have time (great to share with tech team)

- lego study: needed to prompt people to think about REMOVING blocks
	--> additive strategies come much easier than subtractive
- the MVP model of skateboard -> bike -> motorcycle -> car = what is the minimum thing that we can give them that they can get value from
	- then: what is the next marginal thing to make the most positive value
	--> this is what i've been preaching for DS feature development!!
	- the MVP model is just a prompt for reductive thinking, we're open to reductive thinking but need to be reminded
- connects this also to asking good question on stackoverflow, for example by creating a minimum reproducible example
	- bc it forces you to figure out what it is about the problem that is hard, and then reduce it just to that
- young professionals who have been students have been penalized for not knowing for like 20 years, that's why you have to first break the fear of asking questions & learning in public